>> Mike North: The Android equivalent
is a little bit more challenging but
also valuable.
The first thing you will realize is that
local host doesn't work the same way
as it does in the Safari simulator.
So there is a special IP address,
10.0.2.2 that represents
the machine running the simulator.
And you can connect to it with Chrome
dev tools in a way that's very similar
to the way I described
connecting to Safari.
So this is part of Android Studio,
which is an Android specific,
customized version of Eclipse.
It's a popular Java
development environment
with a bunch of Android
tools baked into it.
And we'll kind of walk
through the process here.
Now, this is significantly more
involved than getting set up for iOS.
But at least someone on your team
should have this set up ready to go.
Because there's certain things we're
going to deal with, today and tomorrow,
that are core fundamentals of
progressive web app technology
that really only start to
appear on Android devices.
Because Google sort of leaving
the chart with the specification and
with implementing it.
Android is the first place
we see some of these things.
So once you have this development
environment installed,
the place to look here is
the Android Device Manager,
the AVD, or
Android Virtual Device Manager.
And when you fire it up,
you'll basically have the opportunity
to create a virtual device.
You'll quickly see that there are many,
many different options.
I would encourage you to use a preset of
a popular device, rather than trying to
customize your own, because Android
is such a flexible platform.
You can design a device with 337 pixels
wide and get really weird with it.
That's not going to be useful for
your testing purposes.
But just pay attention to the screen size,
the screen resolution, meaning like,
the device/pixel ratio.
How many dots per inch there are, and
the Android version itself,
because that will generally let you know
what is the newest version of Chrome that
you can use on that Android version.
So you'll end up creating a system image.
This is sort of the disk for the device.
Think of it that way,
like if you install apps,
they stay on this virtual device, and
it's sort of like, this file represents
the hard drive, think of it that way.
And then you'll see that it shows up
in this list of virtual devices here.
So you could have a couple different ones.
I would say, a good starting point
is one tablet, one popular phone.
That is good enough.
And then, you get a very similar
experience to that iOS simulator here.
So on the left,
you can see that is our web application so
this is running in Chrome.
And then on the right,
we see we've got our Android device.
And it looks pretty similar and
by connecting dev tools,
you can pause JavaScript,
and run lines of code,
and check to see if certain things
work and certain things don't.
So a really valuable set of tools,
and very important for
progressive web app technologies.
You will see there as a die-hard
focus on mobile usability.
So this is now something that
needs to be on your radar.